
SAMPLE TYPES

- Tissue: any individual tissue.
- BAL: tracheobronchial fluid (a special type of fluid).
- Blood: blood and serum.
- Faeces: faeces and intestinal contents; stomach contents not included.
- Fluid: liquids, exudates, and semen.
- Swab: swabs and scrapings from various sources.
- Mixed: combination of several samples, even if they are of the same type.
- Other: FTA cards, culture plates, vaccines, DNA/RNA, environmental samples, etc.



-------------------

PIG FARMING PHASES

Universally accepted stages in commercial pig farming typically include:

Pig Production Life Cycle Stages:
1. Breeding (adults)
1.1 Sow: female pig that has given birth at least once. The transition from gilt to sow occurs after her first farrowing.
1.2 Boar: male pig for reproduction.
1.3 Gilt: young female pig that has reached reproductive maturity but has not yet given birth. 

2. Suckling (Birth):
Description: Piglets are born and nursed by their mother (sow). They are blind, deaf, and hairless initially but develop quickly.
Characteristics:
	Piglets weigh 2-3 pounds at birth.
	Develop teeth and eyesight by 7-10 days.
	Start consuming solid food alongside milk around 3 weeks.

3. Weaning:
Description: piglets are separated from their mother. 
Characteristics:
	In this process management and health interventions usually take place (vaccination, sampling, etc).
	It is not a productive phase per se.

4. Nursery:
Description: piglets are weaned from the sow and housed separately. They receive a specialized diet and socialization.
Characteristics:
	They stop nursing and starts eating solid food.
	Piglets gain weight rapidly.
	Develop social hierarchy and play behaviour.
	Vaccinations and other health interventions may occur. 
	Transition is simply a nursery stage.

5. Finishing:
Description: pigs are located in another area to fatten and gain weight until they reach the commercial weight for slaughter.
Characteristics:
	They grow fast.

Category by age in days/weeks or weight (kg):
		Days	Weeks	Weight (kg)
Suckling	0-20	0-2	0-4
Weaning		21-28	3-4	>4-6
Nursery		29-70	5-10	>6-<20
Finishing	>70	>10	20-120
